okay welcome to GUI and browsers for
11th of March 2020 this week this is
like a breaking news the breaking news
is the PR with Gateway subdomains and a
CD proxy got merged three minutes ago so
I expected over like that the general
shape will not change that much when it
will be released in go open five so I
got an agenda here and the first one was
idea first desktop this is like a
breaking news is I just just just step
back before I move away
I'm from the breaking news is this your
first major feature the eval to go ipfs
actually I think so because I got clear
smells before but those were most like
bug fixes and I've added a lot of tests
for course on the HTTP gateway because
the course logic got changed across
three factors and I just wanted to save
guards that we don't have any
regressions there but yeah this is like
pretty big for me the biggest PR
gratulations against go IPO first which
was pretty pretty fun given that I'm
doing this goal go curriculum in
parallel at the snail speed but at least
I wrote some go that's it for about me
let's let's just quickly reiterate why
does this matter this matters because it
adds additional modes to http gateway
the HTTP interoperability layer that
coati affairs exposes on which can be
queried by an HTTP client including web
browsers and this specific change is the
main
consumer of this will be a web browser
so why do we need some domains we need
subdomains for origin isolation on HTTP
gateways so until we got a native
protocol handler or native ipfs support
in web browsers we need to use gateways
as that intermediate step and the
problem with that is entire web security
context is based on the origin origin is
protocol hostname and port usually and
if you use active as IO you get you get
the one one origin so everything under
gateway will share cookies datastore
subdomain gateways of that by creating a
separate sandbox / content route and
realigning the web security model with
the way we represent ipfs content routes
on the Gateway so that will be an opt-in
people will be able to define sub domain
mode for a specific host name here is an
example there's a public subdomain
gateway a divot link and this is like an
example how this confuse how that public
gateway would be could be run using this
new go active as future
everything is opting apart from the one
change we've done for a local host so at
the local host you are able to run
gateway on the VIP port so you got one
one to seven 8080 right and ipfs
something so that remains unchanged it
works as it did before however now if
you go to Hugh's Locker host hostname
then this request will continue to work
but in web browser it will be redirected
to
sub-domain version and next step would
be me
adding supports to active has combined
hopefully that will land at the end of
this week so that's just a teaser I
don't want to derail this call we
subdomains once again but it's like we
are getting there it's four four four
browsers world I mean this this is a
it's a huge turning point like it this
it's when the one of the changes that is
required for us to be able to turn in
the project from experimental and
prototype and things I got to like this
is the expected and production level of
security that browser vendors will
expect it removes a lot of complexity
there will be like probably as the
entire blog post with all the details
it's just pretty exciting to see it land
speaking about like exciting stuff IP
first desktop past Mac OS installation
I believe I did not mention it last week
it was like working progress last week
so if anyone is using Mac OS Catalina or
later
now you no longer need to deal with this
error instead you you have an option to
run it which is good we want people to
be able to install EFS desktop so yeah
once again thank you - deitrick and -
Olly for site user and it's pretty
difficult to fix issues on Mac without
having one all right I'll ship you one
happy I will make this as easy as it
could be they don't make them in the
black color
I need like dark like I got a sharpie I
think about it the next item is
something I sort of mentioned on the
previous call but it feels typical for
GUI and web browsers one about IP NS
resolution
in web browser so it's something I was
not fully aware that was the card
current situation so false from terminal
they are experimenting with mutability
in a web browser and the problem was
there were not there are not able to
resolve IP and s addresses mutable paths
in web browser and that's mostly because
it turns out particles checked an hour
ago the current implementation is like
hard-coded bound to like implementation
of the HD and we probably could and we
don't have the HT in J's ipfs yet
however we have delegated routing
modules when you can delegate ADHD
queries effectively not like
specifically tht but just like Rudy you
can do content routing queries and Peele
routing queries like JSF EFS can
delegate them to some Kawai TFS which
exposes HTTP API endpoints basically
like even default delegate servers
provided at like if sio gateway if
someone wants to like try the problem is
even if you set them up it still at the
lowest level the data stores used for I
can as record safekeeping are bound to
the HT so I feel we probably will have
to take to unlock use of a pianist in
web browser which probably will be
useful now that we have delegated
routing it I believe no one cared about
this because we had no DHT and there are
no other ways
but now that we have dragutin's routing
it makes sense to make it work so that
might be something for q2 because I feel
it's impactful because it's not very the
low-level primitive
right now immutable content works
the problem is with ability I P n s so
that's like a for a low-level primitive
that we are missing in the web browser
context the particle yeah just one thing
so basically suppose that everything
will work which I think it should just
shifting a little bit without the HD for
without concentrating basically we would
only have to change the config for
browser in for a lipid field to use the
content routing nodes which I think
currently it's not using by default but
I think with that it shouldn't if it's
our camera thing works immediately it
should be like a day of work or
something it should be pretty easy I can
even talk on it next level when you ask
for peers and you get or when you ask
about peer addresses and to get those
addresses back those usually will be TCP
addresses I'm not sure it feels like
there's like a missing step we may be
needing some sort of like a real a
mechanism for dialing those TCP ones if
we want to truly truly unlock this
delegated routing cuz right now it's
kind of limited you ask the HT for PID
or like which period is have this
content you get peer at least then okay
what are addresses of those period of
this view ID and you get TCP address
which you cannot tell from
yeah but for something to think about
but I feel it's a useful thing to put on
our roadmap for kyouto next one is boost
on so yeah I can share my screen five
finds the corrector in Provence
I'll just share the desktop I can share
can you just open the issue and share
the screen because I don't have
permissions and I need to restart this
zone to make it happen
you are muted like them
yeah yeah that's me
yeah can you just open the issue and
scroll to the milestones swing yeah
basically this issue contains a that's
good thank you
this issue contains all the stuff that
we discussed in the past in week
regarding the opportunities and
everything that we can achieve from the
real factor of beer sir basically we
have been discussing after the team week
we should schedule the the workmen Jacob
and basically we decided through
something like the five milestones that
we we get there the basically the the
first three should shouldn't be blocked
now in the I can immediately start to
work on them and that's where I'm
currently starting to do while I'm
waiting for a feedback answer list so
basically the tree of death for the
first three we don't provide for the two
the first two are just basically
refactoring and there will be no bigger
gains but it will unblock the remaining
ones and that the third one will be the
first one it will really bring the
improvements for the browser that's when
we will get back to peer start and then
of course in K the mem that story will
be the default but if the user provides
or I suppose yes ffs will provide so in
GFS it will be just the default the data
store for the browser and basically you
will get the peers that you already know
available since you start and you don't
need to go and discover new peers once
again so that will be the first game
after that the fourth and fifth
milestones are basically that things
that will as in the lipid-based side
will need to discuss with the team as
well and create the specs which are
basically the multi other confidence
which basically will also be cool for
the browsers because the goal here is to
kind of score the multi others that we
know of a beer according to the multi
others that we believe
are better to dial and because first now
now we are basically blindly dial in
parallel but we are limiting also the
parallel dials that we can do and
basically we can start for dialing
imagine generally the first three multi
others but the coolest move the others
would be the fourth or the fifth and
basically we will need to discuss and
decide the scoring thing to make a multi
other confidence approach and also those
move the others should have a time to
live and will shoot like evaluate once
in a while if we should improve them or
not there are a lot of notes that we
grab our it but it's still like
discussing discussing stage so far and
with that we also want to do that peers
priority thing which basically will
interact with connection manager in
order to trim properly the connection
that we have in the event of having too
many connections open which now is a
problem okay just close them almost
weeds no logic is just if I'm not wrong
we have some metrics but it's just like
almost blind or trim connections and
these scars plus the multi other scars
and we are also considering the
protocols because for example if we have
a peer running pub sub this beer will
have more priority to know other peers
which are running pub sub so the score
eventually for this those beers will be
higher but it's also a work in progress
to define I will decide the priority of
peers and that's it for now on the piers
darlin
thank you that's super useful especially
I'm excited about like multi other
confidence and improvements around
connection manager for a bit of
background in in the brave browser if
you switch to embedded JSI TFS node that
node has access to TCP transport and
also we run delegated routing module
and I like sort of like youth connection
manager just to limit I believe it's
hard-coded 250 connections just to keep
a browser happy and don't kill brow
extension if it runs too many or it's
too many resources but it's been like
always kinda sketchy
the way it's managed like the manages
connections so it's super useful to a
couple of questions for these what's the
big timeframe for this first three
milestones I think the three milestones
should be pretty fast at least I would
expect them to land may be middle q2 the
other two I would expect to at least
have a decision by the end of q2 and I
will already eventually start working on
them so that in q3 like beginning middle
we should have all of that okay for the
I'd love to have a clearer idea of you
know I'm reading through the goals here
and I see like within the context it
sounds like it might be performance
related but it would be great to be able
to have a summary of exactly which parts
this makes faster for example does this
make faster reconnections like which
we're looking at so many loads of
webpage which exact bits would be faster
when they start making transfers or if
its initial pure collection and things
like that it's initially it's basically
the initial setup of the node there is
it will be faster for the persistence
peer store itself because basically
we'll just start and already know the
peers instead of like needing to wait
because for example in the in
decentralized parts like WebRTC star
server and the other signaling servers
we would need to make this initial jump
on gather the discovered nodes and then
while you would F immediately off them
initial connection if you load a new
page and you've already made a
connection spin that page before you hit
reload or whatever or anything that
would blow away cache or anything like
that
yeah that will be for the third
milestone the fourth in the fifth are
mostly related with the dial performance
and is this is this is the plan to is
the plan to back this data persistent in
our existing local IQ fess repo and data
store so then if somebody does something
like either a clear private data or they
do or we hit the storage quotas it'll
all get blown away with the rest of the
repo I think so okay I know I know that
yoga was talking earlier about how we
could improve the browser that's a sir I
am Not sure
oh it's the status of this thing I think
yeah we didn't discuss anything further
but yeah we poked a little bit at some
of these problems and that's why I'm
kind of like okay we have this we don't
really have a separation between like
system metadata like this and the actual
data that the user is stored feel like
like we like the policies around like
killing user data all right should
probably be different for these things
but if they're all stored in the repo
they can all get at any time with that
especially if another app hits the you
know a totally entirely different domain
whatever hits the storage quota and all
this stuff goes away as well
because we don't press data at this
point so I it's just good to know where
we have these dependencies on other
large system level changes that we need
to figure out like especially around
storage quota make sense yeah but this
this seems I'm less worried about
blowing away this data because you can
recollect it every time it'll just be
like the status quo right but it's good
good good to know for example yeah I
wonder if like if if we actually did
things like persistent storage we still
might even want this in non persistent
storage yep
I think an option for liquid developer
to define in GFS config where in what
type of storage they wants to keep repo
or but basically keep everything because
there's no like this detection if you
ask for persistence then you probably
want to store our sister Bettina yeah do
we yeah that's a good question do we
have an issue about like exposing that
parameter I don't think like Hugo
started working on performance
improvements but we don't have an issue
that's like an action item for me to
quit in one second
this is awesome now I wonder if we could
get I'm trying to think of like who
would be people who would help us out
with some like telemetry or metadata
around initial like node and peer
instantiation time so like people like
three box people who have like larger
deployments maybe even orbit to be folks
who might be able to do some and be able
to like let us know like how just how
big is this change they could be given
all this work one thing I would
recommend to is setting up some initial
metrics so that even in our tests we can
do a measurement they're like just how
much does this matter like set up a
couple different nodes in different
geographic regions and then see how much
they a cold start with no peer peer
backing at all how long that takes to
get to to say a hundred peers or
whatever and then do stuff with warm
start where it's the data stack to be
able to measure what the difference is
yeah also also maybe for the test ground
we could it wouldn't be geographically
but we could benchmark our ease now and
then we would benchmark towards the
second time it puts yeah yeah can can
you add some some measurement or metric
bit to the plan for this so this would
be a great story to tell like just how
much we're improving the performance of
especially if people are building web
applications with it where people are
going to keep coming back to the same
domains over and over sure I will
awesome thank you available
or some next one I suspected Citrix yeah
so when when Rockley is no longer
working on the D web at Mozilla he moved
the lib do a project over to a separate
org on github so now it's the web slash
live D weapons that have Mozilla /d Webb
and really the only person that that's
been doing active development on for
some time is sam Macbeth Sam Macbeth
works for a clicks browser in Germany
and he actually shipped the do head
inside the quicks browser on it's like
an experimental toggle for adding cat
support to quits browser and I think it
would be interesting to talk to them
about opportunities for maybe doing
something similar for ipfs if we can get
a lead web and ipfs working together
again really really cool opportunity
there but he's been working on taking
some of the changes that that iraq we
made to do to be able to get it to
perform better and be more stable and
taking those from the Gecko core patch
that iraq they've done and putting those
into the live d web experimental work
here he's he said a kind of a wall so I
just wanted to broadcast like for people
that are either watching this meeting or
joining this meeting one that some works
still happening there which is which is
great to see and to it's in support of
an actual browser that's like shipping
the feature even in experimental mode
still super important and creates a
really great support but also people are
interested in hacking on some of this
and that people are interested in like
building up their gecko development
skills doing things like bugging
learning the ins and outs of web
extension architecture and
infrastructure in Firefox this is some
place where it would be it would be
great to be able to see more people with
more eyes on this and be able to keep
this project going because I think you
know there's still an opportunity for us
from a you know experimental browser
standpoint and some types of support and
you know one of the things that that I
really want to maybe write up on Grant
around to is is doing an IP FS getting
ipfs implementation on top of lead ii
web back into shape and doing
experimentation on mobile with that
combination so just one broadcast this
out that this works still happening in
people still live d web still alive
people are still using it for real thing
it's and actually it's pretty good data
points that it's like ongoing
development and this one is around
protocol API because we got a draft of
yeah III I'm eager to wake up one day
and be very good at multitasking
during the call so the there's no
awkward silences anything while I open
the right issue or PR but this one is a
protocol API implementation for
basically browser extensions for which
runs on top of gecko here we got grant
to do basically the same thing for
chromium so they say that the tricky
part is to kind of we probably should
coordinate ensure those IP eyes do not
differ too much oh I didn't need that
though sake cause those are browser
extension api's for manifest video so in
the perfect world those both cases would
look similar that's my dream to have a
single manifest for all browsers it will
never happen but we probably like both
people working on this grant and people
including linear could learn from each
other
compare notes we could take the approach
of yet another standard and making meta
manifest or a manifest transformer
there's this xkcd about competing
standards definitely pretty happy that
Libya is still going speaking
about browsers what's new with brave and
the updates and local discovery right
now we believe the local discovery grant
was signed by the contributor I don't
think the work started yet because it
took some time on our end and that
person is working like had other
projects line up I'll probably check in
this week get like ETA when the work can
start I believe it was signed like last
week that's about local discovery what's
next in a wider sense for brave I feel
it's safe to say media I'll make it more
interesting by opening relevant issue so
the problem with the existing experiment
which is embedded JSF EFS in brave one
is performance it's jazz and no matter
how much we try it will never be as fast
in chunking and other things as go in
this specific context cuz I know Alex
will hunt me down and say that it's
faster I know it's faster but not in
browser problem another problem is that
Google is deprecating something they
call Chrome apps so Chrome apps will be
deprecated are like the deprecation
process started and they plan to simply
stop supporting them in 2022
and that means those chrome API switch
we got access which enable us to expose
TCP port and other stuff it's not like
those IDs will disappear in 2022
but probably no one will maintain them
and if they break no one will care apart
from us because it's no longer will be
used in upstream Google products it will
be just left over in that chromium code
base so it will be up
who lets in vendors like brave who if
they decide it there's a value in
maintaining them the maintenance burden
will be shifting away from like Google
engineers to other organizations which
have commit access and commit rights to
chromium project so both for those both
reasons will probably not like
immediately but we will be moving away
from maybe the GSA PFS or to be more
specific we will add another option
another experiment we will not remove
them by the GSA PFS as long those api's
are there and work
however we will probably move to more
performant or more native implementation
that could be go ITF s brief is bundling
binary right now and there are fine with
pumping co hf s that requires additional
orchestration
however we initial discussion we had
around this were that we could reuse
ipfs combined as user interface for
managing that load so that will simplify
implementation on their end
those are super early talks if we decide
to go that route basically if you start
companion if you enable that experiment
in brave settings which you can do here
like this so we probably could have this
power button which enables and disables
compile in the browser it would also
like start and stop like in the initial
proof of concept that would be that one
additional API that we need to make that
happen so that's like plan plan a and
plan B is if rustic DFS turns out to be
ready
that depends like timelines are still
uncertain but it's possible that if we
have this like native protocol 180 I and
the rust ipfs is good enough just
because we don't need like entire
go activist arrow implementation we just
need to be able to connect to activist
Network
and get specific cid that's basically it
like everything else we can do in
companion and we don't need all the AP
ice and stuff like that so that's the
option B and right now we are in we are
sort of like trying to evaluate what's
the timeline what's the complexity for
each it's not it's not even they exclude
each other but we probably don't want to
make those efforts to overlap maybe that
one will happen first and then we when
the rustic FS assuming it will learn
later we may switch to that that's the
landscape not sure if it's useful or if
it's answering the question but that
does that the current situation for now
we will improve companion for sure
note that companion is still using old
libraries before asking iterators
prefactor so the next like in the q2
when we switch to those this and other
JCAP first note will for sure be much
more performant that is it is right now
so that will be like a immediate win for
users of that yeah and the questions for
this one nope just looking forward
seeing some now that we've kind of got
beyond some of the other either high
priority buyers it's exciting to see us
be able to kind of push this problem
these challenges again and it's a nice
transition
uh I actually the the protocol handler
bit I did I poked golly again so
hopefully we can get some movement there
and q2 on that protocol handler
different and like every every single
one of these bits will each one of these
are a little little pieces of that
bigger puzzle and start to reinforce
each other right it's just yeah it takes
a while to get some feedback on the PR
Draft I created if especially if it's
and thing he's missing I purposed I did
not like to go the full brain dump there
I did was trying to be very respectful
about time someone will be spending on
the reading that so if anything is
missing send them my way
and the next one is Oprah the really yes
it's coming soon I think there's one one
final issue we're still waiting to hear
back from but we're close enough that
the my p0 by the end of this week is to
draft a blog post so I'll I'll share it
with flix here to be able to get
feedback on that but things are things
are looking good right going out the
next version
you
dates from cool
III muted myself so it will be exciting
especially that it will go like
with this original selection out of the
box
so that's a small step but it's setting
the proper precedent that when the
support it ships it's not like botched
it's like respecting the web security
model and I feel that's sending a good
signal for the next vendor who will do
something signal we are at the end of
the agenda there's one highlights
highlights which is related to the
notarization but there's a new release
of IP first desktop main feature is
synchronization of new languages I went
with short sink low locales but actually
we've added many new languages so it's
like both the translations but yeah I
usually do I was just like disappointed
in myself that I did not spend time to
highlight those new languages because
those are those were added here so
unless someone has that local set in the
system they will not notice anything but
is now is pure language more or less and
it works again on Debian 10 there were
issues with sandboxing of chromium
chromium is like IP first desktop is
built in electron with electron electron
is basically built on top of chromium
and chromium made some changes about the
default mode or like the defaults maybe
that's a wrong description
no one made specific changes it was just
like the security model in Debian and
security model that was picked by
chromium team do not work together and
we had to come up with a workaround yeah
and authorization that's it if there's a
topic you want to discuss that you know
that was good time I think new version
of chromium has web enough see API
available as a origin trial so we should
probably get going on the web enough see
looking at P transport immediately so
that people can hold their phones
together I have no pity key yeah yeah
it's like it's great for signaling
it's great for exchanging like other
like multi others are not just like
strings of text those can be
representative very small compact binary
form my interest it's good for discovery
and to exchange stuff immediately yeah
yeah like someone could even start two
hot spots on the fly and just use it for
very four local network collaboration
stuff - or the like mobile research
happening behind the scenes right now
some idea like this unlocks a lot of
ideas that were like pie in the sky for
for some time and right now if there's
lands and will land most of if something
gets to their origin trial stage it's
often sheeps then it doesn't yeah I feel
like I'm one of the factors and stuff
like this actually shipping as people
doing an experimentation building out
use cases and providing feedback on
whether the IP API met the need so maybe
this is another another thing
ranadev grant proposal for it's for sure
our work would be well maybe we should
find an issue anyway no matter what as a
request feature request oh yeah like I
for sure will we're added to multiple
issues as it's yeah it's very good
broadcast that it's it's a possibility
I'm I'm kind of curious like is there
any precedent for something that is a
specialized API for an initial like peer
discovery but doesn't actually do a
whole transport it's like well Betsy for
example would be something that we might
support for that initial connection or
pure discovery but it isn't actually
what we use for a transport yeah for a
we have I think only bootstrap in the
idea in the render mode from the DHT
which are discovering not transport
basically it just needs to be compliant
to the interface discovery
we are also we also tried the web loo to
a while ago but at the time there issues
regarding transmitting the type of
betrayed data they only allowed us to
transmit data according to the type of
data that they were expecting and at the
time we couldn't do the discovery where
it might have changed again
so it's a long time ago
you
awesome I love doing the archaeological
spelunking and these repos yeah these
these conversations have been had before
no I'm good
you mean
what's happening with me today I usually
have dotted the like the keyboard
shortcut so I'm pretty efficient with
this today
I was just mentioned that it's like a
testament how how slow some things on
the web
move change of all it's pretty useful
even like documenting it and looking
back to understand that it's not
happening in one day week or quarter
it's a pretty long process yeah we can
we talked a little bit we talked a
little bit about that I would love to do
some writing about that as well like
about our strategy in terms of how you
support long-running long-running like
technology arcs that happen in standards
process how you can accelerate or
decelerate them in ways based on input
feedback or other parallel side tracks
of work and then how sometimes they can
be rendered in entirely entirely
obsolete by another totally out-of-band
innovation or industry level change that
will happen and how like in the work
that we're doing we have to kind of do
all three of those a little bit we just
keep pushing some of these falls forward
sometimes it's from the side sometimes
it's from behind
sometimes it's totally out of bands all
together and something new shows up and
we didn't expect
you
you're muted again
I was I was mentioning that if we look
back we have like already multiple
examples of that the way we tried to
figure it out how sign and bundle HCP
exchanges feat in like ipfs echo system
like what how it was could leverage that
or or how I give us could be used in the
article system
it was like origin trial I believe it's
like this year or at the end of the
last year but yeah it's important yeah
it's for sure importance to I'll give us
be part of those conversations even if
we finally don't decide it's a good
match for some reason it's very
important to to be part of that
conversation I this week we got local
and offline call which is happening
right after this call so unless there
are like very good questions or topics
for the next eight minutes I propose we
take like five to six minutes back
before the next call I I can't join that
one but I would love to hear if there
are interesting topics related to the
work we're doing
I do got just one quick question your
mind mister is I know that there's the
IRC channels is there certain places you
guys your collaborate or discuss other
than like the ipfs IRC channel there is
ipfs - dev which is more more like
technical mostly because the IP fs1 is
it's always like a wall of text and type
if as def is more about people who
actually build or discussing technical
details so it's on freenode it's also on
matrix and there are discussion forums
on discuss active sio but those are you
should like less
less technical don't see why traffic on
there's just a light traffic on it yeah
there's also I believe leap p2p IRC
channel yeah
there is HP IRC channel and there is
also the forum
I think the wait before is getting more
active this case yeah
discuss Darla to Twitter I oh it's
mostly used for people asking questions
yeah okay thanks I know you just want to
enjoy about two other questions with you
until next week
awesome alright see you next week then